Jan Huygh Transmitter Manual V1_0 (a starting draft)

THis is the manual for my transmitter.
Any comments are welcome. Please send them to jan.huygh@gmail.com

Introduction
This manual has been written to help users to start using a transmitter that is based on my
BASCOM code RC TRANSMITTER
The aim is that in the end RC TRANSMITTER would be as functional as any high end commercial transmitter for
RC speed boat competition. That would alos mean that it is probaly very suitable for RC cars as well.

Basic operation of an RC transmitter
The RC trasmitter reads the position of the steering stick on the trasmitter.
These positions are converted into pulses. In all transmitter that I know the pulselenght is between 1 and 2 ms.
A 1.5ms pulse is representing the neutral position (no gass on speed, straight forward on steer).
The RC cannel 1 is normally the steer, the RC channel 2 is normally the speed.
The channels are trsmitted in a Pulse Place Modulation signal. That signal is described in the comments at the start
of the code.
That signal is feeded to a High Frequence module. That model puts the channel in the air. And based on that signal
the RC reviever decides what signals go to the servo's that are connected to the receiver.

Settings
At first glance all you need is the translation of the positions of the steering sticks to the pulsese to the 
servos. Howvever in practice there are some elementary adjustments that come in really handy

SUBTRIM
To make the model go straight you can adjust the steer trim. That is a potentiometer on the trasmitter.
However the position of that potentiometer would be model independant. To make the trim programmable for
aech model my transmitter ahs a sub trim on steer and on speed. For the speed setting you can use this
to set the NO SPEED position.
In contradiction to what you have on low cost transmitters the end points (see here below) do not change when
you set the trim on my transmitter. Same is valid for the sub trim.


END POINT ADJUSTMENT
The end pionts are the extreme postions of the steeringsticks. You will want to be able to adjust them.
For the steer you will probaly want that extreme to be symetrical. On the speed you will probably want to be
able to set the pulse that corresponds to the lower extreme (the break) and the high extreme (full gass) 
individually. Thsi will enabale you to set the pulse that you need to "open" your electronic speed regulator
exactly to the value you want. And on the other side the break will give exectly as much breal as you want.
Fpr the steer I have the habbit to set the extreme to exectly the value where my boat can still follow
the curve (without spinning). Others prefer to set the end points on the steer more agressive so they alread
make a sharp turn with a smaller deviation of the steer stick.
No matter how you like it you are able to sett them exactly the way you want them.

ExPONENTIAL
Normally the transfer ratio from stick position to pulse lenght is linear. However in competions you might
want it to be so that your steer react slow when you give little steer and more agressive when you are
neer the end positions.
The code in my trasmitter has exponential on steer and on speed. It are values between -100 and +100.
The setting -1 to -100 gives a sub linear reaction arround the neutral position but a more than linear
reaction neer the end position. The opposit is valid for +1 to +100

NORMAL/REVERSE
This enable you to switch the polarisation. If you see that turning the steer left make your model turn right
you will want to change the steer setting to reverse.
