A brief explanation would be helpful. So here goes: This Colloidal silver generator does
produce Ionic Colloidal Silver. Not only Ionic, but at the nano sizes of the range .0001 to .0008
microns or 0.1 to 0.8 nanometers! Smaller than your blood cells. (average of about 0.23 nm)


The silver that us used to produce this is at worst case, .999 silver and in a flat strip or a rod shape. The length of the silver rods or strips can be what ever size you want (must fit into the container) and the wider the better.  Currently I use .9999 silver bars 15 cm in length 10mm wide and 4mm thick.

Water quality is of the utmost importance and this generator will test the water upon the start of the cycle. It is a little over kill on the water test but is necessary to insure that you use good quality water. Only good water of less than 2.0 parts per million should be used (Distilled is the best)  This generator will fail the water under test if it's greater than 1.6 ppm!  Now of course you could leave the probes disconnected to defeat this test, but it was designed to let you do this.

Distilled water is not very conductive so it's always best to use some seed water from the last batch to get the process started. when you use seeded water it will fail the water test as It will put your water at about at least 10 part per million. That is why it lets you leave the probes disconnected as most of the time, you would be making it from a seeded batch...

The length of time needed to make a batch depends on a few factors IE., the amount of CS being made the voltage and current being used and the probe length and width.  This generator runs at 30 vdc and has presets (modes 1,2,3,4) of 2 to 4 ma of current. mode 1: 2ma mode 2: 4 ma, mode 3: 6 ma and mode 4 Custom current setting via the 10 turn pot. (which also doubles as the parts per million set point)

The setup I currently use and the normal setting of mode 2: .004 ma of current (default) takes about 4 to 6 hours to complete it. That is at 1500 ml of water in a glass flask being stirred via a magnetic stirrer.  The stirrer works the best and avoids the possibility of the nano silver clumping together.

Other modes have there uses also mode one is the best and most effective but takes a long time to make due to the least amount of current. IE a fresh batch of non seeded water on mode one, shooting for 20 ppm would take around 16 hours to complete!

During the process this Generator monitors the current flow and holds it at the proper current for the mode selected. It has a few leds(6 in all) one is for monitoring the current and is labeled CV/CC (constant voltage/Constant current) it will start out in CV mode (green led) and as the current starts to rise during the process, it will eventually go into CC mode (red led) and hold this current setting throughout the process.

If during the process a short should develop, the generator will sound 3 long beeps and reduce the voltage/current to a very low value, wait a specified time and then try to resume the process. If however it is still shorted, it will repeat the 3 beeps and repeat the wait time. It will try to resume once more, but if still shorted for the 3rd time, will force the generator to abandon the process.

This generator also has what is known as reversing polarity (every 30 seconds) that is used to help keep the probes clean during the process. during the process an oxide will try to build up on one of the probes if the polarity were not switched, this would hamper the process, but by reversing the polarity the oxide falls off the probes and into the water, this later settles out of the solution you are making.

A nice feature of this generator is the ppm set point and the custom current setting. There is a rule of thumb that you should use no more than 1 ma of current per sq inch of the probes in the water. This generator adheres to this rule. but that also means that you will be using the same type of probes most of the time.

at some point in time, the probes will need to be replaced, here is where the custom current is really handy. Say the probes I was using are no longer available, maybe the replacements are smaller or bigger than the last set of probes. You can now adjust the current being supplied other than the presets by using mode 4, custom current setting.  This mode will allow you to press the current button and rotate the 10 turn pot to raise or lower the current to match the probes you are using.  So if you were making say 5 gallons at a time, you would want longer/wider probes to speed up the process. stick to the rule of thumb of 1 ma of current per sq inch of probe in the water and you can provide up to 200 ma of current from this generator. (in mode 4)

There is another feature built into this generator, it is a progress display. after the process has been running for one minute with no button pressing, the generator will switch to the progress display mode. It will then use the four mode indicating leds to indicate how far you are along in the process in 25% increments of the leds.

IE in the progress display mode it will light up the leds every 25% you get closer to your ppm setting. so If all 4 leds are on, that would indicate 100% completion and the generator would end the process, play a little tune to get your attention and then start scrolling the 4 mode leds.

There is more to list, but I will have to put it in the manual as I'm at work right now and this would also take up a lot of space and a lot of typing. but you will get the general idea from this post.


To cover quickly the usefulness (uses of the cs solution) one can say, or I can even say and as one has also said to me "It's the water of the gods"  It has amazing properties, from killing molds and mildew to killing bacteria and viruses.

When I first started making this, I took 2 small glasses and filled them with milk, in one glass I added 1 teaspoon of colloidal silver at 30 ppm.   I then let these glasses sit at room temp, just after 3 days time the glass without the cs mixture was getting a lil thick looking and after 5 days time was really nasty looking and smelling.

But the one with the CS solution was still normal looking and no odor was emitting from it. Just that small test was enough for me to see that it does work and since then have used it on just about every occasion that I can.

I have given this water to quite a few people over here, I would recommend that you do not do this.  Not because something bad may come of it, but because it works so well, they keep coming back for more!!!

There is not a hour that my colloidal silver generator is not running, that's just how high of a demand there is for it now.


I will post more later,

Robert