Circuit description:
LED1 is a poor man's voltage standard.  A yellow LED will provide a relatively
stable 1.8V.  R6/R7 divide the voltage down to 375mV.  IC2A buffers that voltage
so it doesn't vary under load and provides a low (<1 Ohm) output impedance.

NOTE: IC2 must be a rail-to-rail input and output opamp.  I used an LT1490 
because I had one.  Many others will work but 747s, etc. will not.

R4 sets the output impedance at 100 Ohms and limits current to 3.75 mA maximum.  
This completes the voltage source.  Note that the output of this source and the
input to the sense amp (IC2B) must be connected together at the probe.  In other
words, JP1 pin 2 and pin 4 both get wired to the tip of aa single probe.  This
is known as a kelvin connection and effectively nulls out the resistance of the
wire running to the probe.  The other probe goes to JP1 pin 1, commonly known
as ground.  One circuit improvement would be to provide a kelvin junction on the
ground side, but it adds a lot more complexity.

IC2B provides a gain of 10, increasing the sensitivity of the BuzzBox.

I used 1% resistors in the analog circuitry out of habit.  5% would be adequate.

IC1 is an ATtiny13A but could be any of a dozen or so Atmel parts.  The code uses
~470 bytes of flash and ~17 bytes of data ram.

Code description:
After initializing ports the code falls in an infinite loop:
	-- it takes an ADC reading,
	-- compares it against some limits
		-- in the 3 lowest ranges, it lights an LED, green is < 1 ohm,
		blue is 1-3 ohms, and red is 3-6 ohms.  
		-- depending on the reading it sets timer0 to generate a
		frequency which is inversely proportional to the resistance
		-- delays for 250ms while the tone blasts
	-- end compare
-- end loop

NOTE: I had trouble setting the compare values for the timer.  Calculated
values were way off and I ended up determining them experimentally.  Piezos
have a resonant frequency where they are loudest and they drop off rather
quickly when you get away from resonance.  i take advantage of that fact and
use it as a volume control -- the farther you get from 0 Ohms, the farther
from resonance the frequency gets, thus turning down the volume as well as
changing the tone.

One last NOTE: there are 2 types of piezos.  You want the kind that does NOT
have a driver circuit.

Sherman 
6/2/12