What the hell does this thing do?

Well, from my house, I cannot see the mailbox, and its 
300 feet away (approximately).

I had been playing around with some of these modules:

http://www.sparkfun.com/commerce/product_info.php?products_id=872


I thought it would be a very simple project to learn from.
So I mounted a normally open Magnet switch on the inside of the mailbox.
(the magnet side mounted to the door)

I have a plastic mailbox since the metal one I bought only 3 yrs ago 
rusted right out!

The transmitter is mounted inside a small plastic radio shack box 
that also comes with a 9V battery compartment and a 9V battery clip.
I mounted the transmitter at the back of the mailbox so it does not interfere
with anything. The antenna is routed down through the bottom and just sticks down
under the mailbox.

So when the mail woman opens the door to the mailbox, the ground wire is 
connected to the circuit and the transmitter powers up, transmitting
the 4 byte packet to the receiver mounted inside the house.

For the receiver, I built a small board and I leave it near the kitchen window. 
It's plugged in at all times, and simply waits for the right packet. 
(the wife loves the wires everywhere!)

When the receiver verifies that the packet is the correct one, 
it beeps a buzzer 5 times.

In case you didn't hear the buzzer, you will know that that 
the mailbox had been opened because the LED will be lit. At this point the
receiver will not receive any more transmissions until the reset button is pushed
or the power is disconnected and then re-connected.

At first when I was fine tuning the transmitter code, I needed to program the transmitter and I didn't want to keep removing it from the mailbox because it was a hassle. So I installed an ISP connector on the transmitter board and built the AVR standalone programmer to do the programming right in the mailbox. 
(you can also download it in my projects).

Pretty easy. 

Some parts of the code was adapted from this site:

http://www.serasidis.gr/

Very good site for avr projects!
Everything I have ever downloaded from this site has worked 100% the first time!

The transmitting/receiving was adapted from avr305 appnote.

You should forewarn your mailman/mailwoman what the transmitter is, so that
they don't think it's a bomb!

These days too many people are freaked out about this kind of stuff!
If you need help there is a great deal of good information in the 
SPARK FUN Wireless forums!

Good Luck!




